 [MUSIC]
 [MUSIC]
 So this talk will be held in English.
 [FOREIGN]
 So there will be no translation for this talk, but today I'm very pleased to introduce Jaschow to you.
 He's going to talk about protocols.
 He's here.
 Protocols and algorithms that help communicating through the vast expanse of space.
 Exciting, isn't it?
 And everything that has to do with networking and the title of the talk is how to route a package to Mars.
 Jaschow, your stage.
 [APPLAUSE]
 Yeah, thank you very much.
 Thanks for the introduction and thanks for coming to this episode of the space track at Nortex.
 I think around this time is actually every day a talk about something space related.
 Some of them already very good.
 I already cut my script because other people explained it better.
 So we have more time for the things that I think are particularly cool, which is generally space networking.
 I think I don't have to convince you, but I'll tell you what I particularly think it's cool.
 So strap in.
 So I'm Jaschow.
 Some people call me Johann Schöpfer.
 Yeah, some stuff I am is there.
 I studied informatics.
 I'm some sort of researcher, I guess.
 And I originally scoped this out as a PhD topic maybe.
 And yeah, I still hope it's going to work out some day.
 So we'll see.
 So where should we start?
 Here, I guess.
 So networking layer models, maybe probably a lot of you have heard about it.
 It is OK, how do you build computer networks?
 Lots of machines talking to each other.
 Data goes where it should.
 You build protocols on top of each other.
 Firstly, it's physical.
 That's actual on the wire signals, radio stuff, fiber optics, whatever.
 And above that, data link.
 That's I think most of the time ethernet, other stuff, I guess.
 And these protocols all package data off the protocol above it.
 So you build little onion where you have low level protocols that do like point to point
 stuff and more high level protocols do end to end stuff.
 Probably very bad explanation of the concept.
 Anyway, in reality, it's much more complicated.
 So it is in space.
 So the CCSDS protocol ecosystem is not the only one, but it has a lot of standards that
 you can look at.
 So I did that, and that's probably where a lot of this talk came from.
 It's CCSDS is a board by most of the space agencies of the world where they work out
 standards for how their SATCOM systems should communicate.
 So they have some interoperability.
 And other people use it too so they can rent out their equipment, I've heard.
 So okay.
 Why am I showing you all of this?
 So anyway, down here we have, I guess, space ethernet stuff at the data link level where
 yesterday's talk explained that pretty well.
 So I'm just going to say it's space ethernet.
 And above that, we have, yes, it's called something like shim protocols.
 Basically those low level protocols, they only transport certain other types of protocols.
 And if you want to do networking, so if you want to hand this stuff to other higher level
 protocols who will then do complex routing stuff, you use the encapsulation protocol
 and you, for example, talk to your satellites with IP.
 But that's boring.
 So I want to talk about the other stuff.
 Actually, where is the next slide?
 Oh, yeah.
 I'm going to talk about LTP and BP over here.
 We're going to learn what those mean.
 Those are, I'd say, proper networking protocols for interplanetary activity.
 But frankly, I think most of the space to space communication, so actual multi-hub communication
 right now works with bent pipe style networking.
 For example, this here is a TDRS satellite.
 It's called tracking data relay system.
 Anyway, it's how I think the International Space Station is actually reached.
 So how those guys get internet, they need to get one of those satellites as a relay.
 It's operated by NASA.
 I hear the US military uses most of the bandwidth.
 Doesn't matter too much, but it's not that interesting networking wise.
 It's just those data link protocols are used and then it's manually told, okay, be a relay
 here, be a relay there.
 It's not that much more interesting than, I don't know, have you seen those guys who
 have like an old school manual phone operator table where they plug in the cables and connect
 phone lines next to a phone?
 It's connecting the actual networking is pretty manual.
 The satellite is just told connect here, connect there.
 But that's not really what you understand as networking protocols.
 So let's get to the first thing, Lick Liner Transmission Protocol.
 This was developed for the express purpose of interplanetary missions or stuff that's
 very far away.
 The motivation for it was I think all of the missions that go in, let's say, past the moon
 are using the deep space network which is I think a corporation of multiple agencies
 with really big antennas on multiple places around the world to reach those really far
 away crafts.
 But they're really overbooked and it's any bandwidth you get is a premium.
 So Lick Liner is trying to optimally use that.
 And how is it doing that?
 So I'm going to try to explain Lick Liner protocol very fast.
 So you may see here some red arrows and some green arrows.
 Lick Liner has two modes of data transportation.
 One's called red part data.
 That's important data that you really want to get through.
 And it uses retransmission for anything that doesn't get acknowledged.
 And the green part data is sort of okay, nice to have, but it's fire and forget transmission
 basically.
 And how it works is the red part data occasionally sends out checkpoints that requests an acknowledgement
 back, okay, what have you received?
 And the checkpoint has a timeout and when the timeout fails, then you politely inquire
 again hey, did you get that data?
 Or maybe you get a back acknowledgement that doesn't include enough data so you know what
 to resend.
 That's the basic gist of it.
 But it was specifically designed to have I think lots of parallel timeouts running.
 So you can just keep sending all the time and only when you're sure you need to resend
 something, then you're rescheduling it.
 That was the logic behind it as I'm aware.
 Right.
 But maybe you've noticed not so much networking yet going on.
 This is still a single hop protocol.
 One second.
 Right.
 Just checking the time.
 Yeah, it's used for transmission to deep space, but it's still only recommended for single
 hops from craft to ground station usually.
 But that's not well, if you know something about IP and routing, that's not really what
 we expect networking to do.
 We want to automatically get from point A to point B across multiple devices.
 Anyway, the system should be smart enough to figure it out.
 But right.
 I think the first protocol where they really found it necessary to implement something
 like this was with bundle protocol.
 I'll tell you shortly for what circumstances.
 I guess I should go into what is DTN or delay tolerant networking.
 When we're going into environments where we have very long delays, like we go to places
 like Mars or Jupiter, we have many minutes or hours of transmission delay.
 And also, orbital dynamics is a thing, and sometimes things disappear behind an object.
 So you have intermittent connections.
 And bundle protocol is sort of a framework for also dealing with intermittent connections,
 and it basically introduces the concept of custody transfers, passive transmit.
 I'll explain it here on this funny little graphic.
 This is supposed to be a lunar rover or something, and here a lunar orbiter.
 And you can easily imagine a lot of the time something, an object on the back of the moon,
 doesn't actually get reached by the Earth ground station.
 So you want to go through a relay of some kind.
 So how I've drawn it.
 You can basically have a direct connection link availability all the way, but it can
 be that the orbiter also gets lost behind the object, and then you need to send stuff
 first to the orbiter.
 It needs to hang on to it, take over custody, and then it comes back around, and then it
 can send stuff back.
 Right.
 And apparently these situations have a tendency to get a bit complicated, so they've actually
 designed a routing protocol to deal with these situations.
 There's actually also some terrestrial uses for bundle protocol.
 Some of them pretty cool.
 For example, when you have distributed sensors where there's not a lot of internet connection,
 and you fly a drone overhead to collect the data with a data mule, also a place you can
 use it.
 I heard it's also been used for bus systems where the city buses pass each other all the
 time.
 So if you can transmit to the buses directly, then they can just exchange information between
 each other.
 For example, about schedule changes or emergency info of some kind.
 I've heard that's what it's been used for.
 There's also routing for these sorts of scenarios.
 Also interesting stuff, epidemic routing is one way of doing it, which is just send everything
 to everyone, and you see where it turns up.
 But that's not for our use case here, where we still want to be pretty bandwidth efficient.
 And the protocol that was developed to solve that was contact graph routing.
 So now I'm going to explain contact graph routing in a slide.
 I'm going to explain this little diagram over here.
 So we have again a situation, ground station, a relay satellite, and the rover.
 And here these little blocks, if you can see them, are supposed to be contacts.
 Let's say we have a contact of one hour between the rover and the satellite with 100 kilobits
 per second.
 And later the satellite has a contact home to the ground station, also one hour 500 kilobits
 per second.
 Just some numbers.
 That's called a contact plan.
 You have to do it, even if you have line of sight between crafts, you still need to plan
 out where is it facing, when are which crafts supposed to have a link.
 This you know pretty much beforehand, unless something goes wrong.
 So you have this contact plan and you turn this into a contact graph.
 The contact graph is below.
 Basically this thing here is connected into...
 Well, you want to get something from the rover to the ground station.
 So the rover is sort of a source node.
 And every contact is also turned into a node and they are connected if something from one
 contact can be transmitted to the next contact.
 Like here, this edge means the satellite is holding on to the data and then transmitted
 on.
 And then there's basically, you run algorithms of path finding basically.
 Do I have a file of a certain size?
 Can I fit this through this graph?
 You have to remember every contact has a limited data amount it can put through.
 So that's contact graph routing in a nutshell, I guess.
 Another thing to remember is contact graph routing needs to keep track of what data is
 it sent where.
 For example, if the rover has sent enough data to basically fill this contact entirely,
 okay, it needs to remember, okay, this node is now out of the equation, no more space
 on that.
 And then if available, you have to choose another route.
 But when we have multiple relays, multiple crafts available, then this becomes more complicated.
 Then you need a proper algorithm for it.
 You can at least not easily hard code it.
 Yeah, and I guess to loop back around why I'm talking to you about this.
 This was actually sort of stuff I found really interesting for research, because there's
 -- and I have described it, there's a lot of things you can improve still.
 One of it is, for example, model of fragmentation, which is if you have a data unit that is too
 big to fit through a specific contact on a certain path, but you have still room, okay,
 you can send a fragment, okay, this should be squeezed through.
 Then the rest can be go through some other contact, maybe with a more expensive route.
 This was actually implemented by someone already.
 Or at least there's been a standard recommendation.
 Unfortunately, I don't really know if these algorithms are in use right now in deep space.
 It's a bit difficult to get the exact information on that.
 At least I haven't found it.
 But there's been work on this bundle fragmentation thing.
 Another interesting topic for me is congestion control.
 For example, if you go back, if we just imagine here two rovers who are using the same relay
 and don't know about each other, how are they supposed to know when this red contact has
 been exhausted?
 They don't really.
 So there's also been some work done on that, how nodes share with each other some information
 about how much they've already been queued, so other nodes know when to expect delays
 and they can reroute other places.
 Usually it's optimised by shortest delivery time.
 And if you can expect, okay, I'm going to wait on this node for hours and days, then, okay,
 I might want to use another slower route.
 That's sort of routing questions that arise.
 And otherwise, you know, right now I think the most you can realistically apply this
 is with the master rovers, curiosity and what's the other big one?
 Opportunity, thanks.
 And there's certainly orbiters overhead who could serve this function.
 I think they already do it in some fashion like this, though I'm not sure if they use
 the protocol.
 But what if you have, I don't know, ten times the rover, five times the relays, multiple
 hops?
 I think it's I feel like this isn't figured out.
 And I would be interested in doing it.
 And this is where I'm complaining that it's kind of difficult.
 So when you're, you know, come from the internet world, you expect, okay, these sort of standards,
 surely there's reference implementation that I can just plug together somehow and run simulations.
 Well, it's still tough.
 There's not at least I didn't find so much.
 And I found a implementation in a network simulator, NS3.
 For bundle protocol, there is actually an implementation published by NASA.
 But for some of the papers I've been looking at, I should mention Scott Burley and Sangeeta
 Dara, which have been writing the papers about this stuff that I've been referring to.
 Yeah, I've asked for the simulators, but they haven't sent it to me yet.
 But maybe they will, or maybe they won't.
 Sometimes there's weird export restrictions on space code.
 And apparently NASA publishes a lot of code.
 But a lot of code is, hey, we'll send it only to you if you're an American citizen.
 Okay, I guess.
 Not sure if that's a real security achievement.
 But some stuff is difficult to guess.
 But I've been dreaming up how would I want this simulation research to be conducted,
 what would be really cool.
 Then I think some sort of modular framework like this, where, for example, you have, I
 guess what you would need is orbit simulations, link simulations, and node simulations.
 In my head, that makes a lot of sense.
 So you have one part, the trajectories of the crafts that you're trying to build a network
 with, because that, of course, informs what kind of networks make sense.
 Then you need to determine, okay, what's line of sight going to be if you're sending stuff
 through the atmosphere?
 Maybe there's a changing interference depending on what angle you send stuff.
 So that's the other part of the simulation.
 Then you need some sort of emulation of the network that's running on the node.
 So that's what I would want.
 And then you just combine it in some sort of mission compose.yaml.
 But it doesn't exist yet.
 So maybe I have time to write it.
 And thanks for coming to my talk.
 Some cool people I found, C3 space center, Libra space foundation.
 They also try to do some open source space stuff.
 And yeah.
 Thanks for listening.
 I'll be by the side for questions.
 Thank you very much for your presentation.
 So we're pretty much spot on for time.
 So maybe the most important information would then be where can people find you to talk
 to you about.
 Oh, right.
 I guess I'll hang out by the stage for a while and I'll be at the WTF village for a while.
 Very good.
 So unfortunately no time for questions since we're running a tight schedule here.
 But let's thank again our speaker, Jaschop, for his nice presentation.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 (music)
