 [MUSIC]
 [MUSIC]
 [MUSIC]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [APPLAUSE]
 It's wonderful to see you here.
 Welcome to the Chaos Communication Camp 2023.
 [APPLAUSE]
 We're so happy to see you here at the first CCC event after three and a half years.
 There are some differences to the last camps and events.
 For example, we see there are much more people here, we are 6,000 people.
 [APPLAUSE]
 We have the new concept of decentralized stages.
 Here is the Markba stage, we also have, and the other stages are organized from the villages.
 We have the food stalls, you can see them behind of you.
 And we know it's still wonderful and we would like to have a wonderful camp.
 [APPLAUSE]
 Some fun fact, the 36C3 is 1,325 days ago.
 Please check if I'm right, maybe I'm wrong.
 And we know, talk to other people, that's why we are here in Brandenburg.
 And have a nice time.
 [APPLAUSE]
 Yeah, as some of you may have noticed, we have a wonderful design with great arts and logos.
 For example, if you can see it on the screens, there is FISTI.
 FISTI is an interesting symbol and I think it represents our community very nice.
 Because it uses the symbol of the raised fist.
 And this means we should be strong together, we are a community.
 And I think this is very, very important for us.
 And I think it's a very good match for this community and for this event.
 Because we have some core values and I want to remember them.
 We have, for example, the Unvereinbarkeitserklärung.
 I think this is only available in German.
 But I wanted to cite some sentences from it.
 Because I think it's very important that you all know that this belongs to our core values.
 But those who approach us with ideas of racism, exclusion and the structural and physical violence associated with it.
 Have abandoned dialogue and are beyond the limits of acceptance.
 In addition to that, we have another important thing, the hacker ethics.
 If you break stuff, build new stuff, try to remember.
 Look in the hacker ethics because there are some good advices what you can do and what you shouldn't do.
 When we were asked to do this opening, we thought about what the DCC makes for us and why we even go to DCWEN.
 It's an interesting question and we thought about the core values.
 We also think the DCC as a civilian organization is wonderful and it shouldn't be different.
 Also, there are people here we can trust that understand us.
 And also that just like I think we all know that there are differences between the outside world and here.
 Like we are an invalid organization.
 We can just be here.
 We are like-minded.
 We understand each other and we can have a wonderful time together.
 [Applause]
 And I have a question.
 Which people of you are here for the first time?
 I want to see who is new to the camp.
 Oh, that's a lot.
 Yeah, that are a few people.
 Thank you for coming here.
 [Applause]
 And for you people and for the other ones who were here a long time ago,
 I have some things which we should remember because they are very important to survive this great event.
 And a run rule we have is sleep, eat, shower and repeat daily.
 At least six times a day sleep.
 At least two times a day food.
 And at least one time a day shower.
 And also sleep in addition at least six hours.
 That's probably the sixth.
 Yeah, and that's very important that you can stay safe and enjoy the wonderful event.
 We don't want in the infrastructure we will be on the last day.
 We don't want the third to say that there are like many people with injuries of any kind.
 And we want to stay healthy, we want you to stay healthy and otherwise we will probably be broke.
 In addition to that sunburn is a thing.
 Also when the sun is not visible, you need sun protection.
 I tried that also two days ago.
 I thought I don't need that and I need it.
 Yeah, I also can learn things.
 Also if you feel like the sun is burning you, you can also apply the sun protection multiple times a day
 and think of it, remind your other hackers around you and care for all of you.
 Another important rule is that you drink enough water because drinking not enough water is a common DDoS attack at chaos events.
 So please there is water overall, there are water dispensers to refill your bottles.
 Please use them, drink enough water because the sun is hot.
 And if we have dehydrated people, they can't enjoy the event anymore.
 So please, please drink enough water that you can stay hydrated.
 For those of you who are not here for the first time, you probably know the sentence "all creatures welcome".
 It's one of the guidelines of CCC and the events for a long time, at least for the full time I was on these events.
 And I think it's wonderful.
 It's also Snoopy said about the core values and they refer to that.
 There's also in the statue of the Chaos Computer Club is this wonderful sentence,
 "The Chaos Communication Club is a galactic community of living beings independent of age, gender, ancestry or social status."
 I think we all should remember that.
 We are different and that's wonderful.
 Everybody should feel welcome here, should express themselves.
 And have also like we are different people sometimes and we can be what we want here.
 And at least I love that.
 Also for that, we should make this campus accessible for people with disabilities of any kind.
 If you are a village and have these large white tents from the Orga, there are still some ramps for wheelchairs.
 And you can call the village Orga, the village team and they will get them to you.
 Another thing in the history of CCC events, you all probably know, the X-Leading to each other.
 We extended this a little bit, the X-Leading to each other and also to yourself.
 Like mental health is a thing and please care for you and all the other people around you.
 If you don't feel comfortable or in any kind, it's mental or physical, you can go to help.ccc.de.
 And there are teams on site which will help you like Assert and awareness and other teams.
 You can call them on deck and if you don't have a deck, ask other people, they will be happy to help you.
 Another thing, this event is only possible because we have much volunteers there
 and those volunteers helped a long time to make this great event possible and they are called angels.
 They have everywhere, you may have seen them already at the entrances, they are at the cash desk,
 they are at the heaven and coordinating other angels, they are all running around and they help to refill bars.
 Without these angels, this camp would not be possible, so thank you for all the angels who are already here and helping for the build up.
 That these angels are helping so much is very great, but I want to remember them and all of us,
 we shouldn't work too hard if we need a break, we should take a break because if we work too hard for this event,
 I think it's not good because we are getting issues from that.
 I heard from the other angels and this would be nice if they make a break,
 that they get food and can help make this event better when they are healthy and can help.
 One other thing, if you are wondering about the angels and the heaven and want to help make this event great,
 you can go to the heaven, it is there in one of the tents, there is a large sign with heaven above it,
 and you can just ask them what to do and they will explain everything you need to know that you can help to make this event great.
 One part of what we expect from each other is about photos.
 We want to have photos of the event, we want to publish them, but you should and need to ask all the people in the picture
 before taking photos if it's okay for them to be on the photo.
 There are people here who don't want to be on the internet or have a photo of them on the internet and we want to respect that.
 [Applause]
 Okay, and now we have a number of dangerous hazards, tents and lines of the tents and cables and rails.
 They are all over the place. You may have seen the trailer and I heard from people who had issues with the tracks
 because in the dark you can't see them, please bring light, be careful when you're walking around.
 For the tents, there are some tails somewhere I've seen them which is bright, you can put it on the lines that you use for your tents
 so people also in the dark can see them and don't stumble over them because it can be very dangerous.
 Also, if you have vehicles, there are a few around here, I've seen some body cars and bikes and maybe cars.
 If it's night and dark outside, please use lights because it's very important they are moving
 and if you can't be seen and can't see anything, this is also dangerous and yeah, this is very important.
 And if you drive, please drive with walking speed because there are many people here
 and we don't want that you crash into other people.
 Again, we want you to stay healthy.
 [Applause]
 You may have seen already this blue, we call them the art and clothes.
 There are not toilets even if they look like they are, there are network housings,
 well, housings for network equipment and please don't use them as a toilet.
 It already happened during build up.
 I think this should remind all of us that it can happen but it shouldn't and it's a huge mess for the people who need to clean this up.
 And we don't want to have them in this mess.
 So before I'm going to talk about some highlights, I want to say another important thing.
 I've heard that some people are already tagging the area with graffiti.
 Please don't do that. Please remember we are in a museum and have some old stuff here
 which is very important for the Siege of Leipzig Park and please don't tag them.
 They are old, they are valuable and please respect them because we want to have them that we can do some art with it.
 Okay, for the highlights we have a batch.
 This is traditional on KS Communication camps.
 Some of you may remember the last time there was the radio, some have them.
 I've seen some on the site and this time we have the flower.
 It's here. It's something like a synthesizer. It makes sounds, it makes lights.
 So if you walk there beforehand and pre-sale, you can get them at a special tent.
 I'm not sure which one I'm using so I didn't ask for information. It's somewhere out there but it's going to be very useful.
 So you can experiment with the batch. There's something you might have to do with it.
 Just find out what people are going to do with it and extend it, tag it, have fun.
 [Applause]
 We asked the art team before we wanted to present some highlights and take art highlights and we asked them and they asked us what the other projects are and we thought we could mention all of them.
 So I think we can say that the campgrounds, find out what they are and the other ones.
 [Applause]
 One of the highlights I've already seen is the train. You may have noticed already the train tracks are all over the place.
 I think it's a great opportunity to see the campground from outside if you would like to see the train.
 [Applause]
 Some clubs and lounges. You can look for them at the schedule. It's published yesterday. There are some wonderful acts that we think or that we not thought that we would get them. So please look at the schedule and find out what happens and have fun there.
 [Applause]
 And at last we want to wish you a wonderful adventure. Have fun. Experience the camp. Just have a wonderful time for a few days. Sorry.
 [Applause]
 Yeah, and there is one last thing. A few of you remembered maybe Andrei Yanitsevsky, also known as Tepsky. If you look on the screens we found a picture for him and we think he would be very happy and proud of us if we are having fun.
 I see a lot of people who think we are doing great things here and I think he would like that.
 And we also think it would be great if we can cheer together on Andrei and the camp and we have some small drinks for you prepared.
 We have non-alcoholic ones. The non-alcoholic ones are apple juice. They are yellow. And the other ones are clear. This is alcohol. So please open the crates.
 Take one, come to the crates and we should cheer all together.
 [Background noise]
 [Background noise]
 [Background noise]
 [Background noise]
 Okay, I think most of you have the drinks. Are you ready? In memory to Tepsky and for a wonderful CCC camp. Cheers!
 [Cheers]
 (gentle music)
 [Music]
